
SIP SIMPLE client
-----------------

Copyright (c) 2008 AG Projects
http://ag-projects.com


Description
-----------

SIP SIMPLE client is Python software library built on top of PJSIP that
together with middleware allows for easy development of Client/Server and
Peer-to-Peer Internet communications end-points based on SIP SIMPLE family
of protocols for voice, video, presence, instant messaging (IM) and file
transfer capabilities.

The goal of this project is to deliver the best open source Python library
for rich featured SIP end-points, while hiding the complex underlying
functionality behind an easy to use high-level application-programming
interface. This package supports to the SDP negotiation, audio codecs and
NAT traversal functionality provided by PJSIP and will thus deliver rich
communications combining instant messaging (IM), voice and video streams. It
also supports file transfer and multi-party chat sessions using MSRP
protocol, publication and subscription for rich presence information such as
availability, moods, activities and geo-location, management for presence
rules, resource lists, RLS services using XCAP protocol.


Background
----------

SIP stands for 'Sessions Initiation Protocol', an IETF standard described by
RFC3261. SIP is an application-layer control protocol that can establish,
modify and terminate multimedia sessions such as Internet telephony calls
(VoIP). Media can be added to (and removed from) an existing session.

SIP transparently supports name mapping and redirection services, which
supports personal mobility, users can maintain a single externally visible
address identifier, which can be in the form of a standard email address or
E.164 telephone number regardless of their physical network location.

SIP allows the endpoints to negotiate and combine any type of session they
mutually understand like video, instant messaging (IM), file transfer,
desktop sharing and provides a generic event notification system with
real-time publications and subscriptions about state changes that can be
used for asynchronous services like presence, message waiting indicator and
busy line appearance.


Features
--------

The software allows you to create elegant real-time communications
applications without having to read the +1200 RFC documents behind it.

As a library with a high-level API, the toolkit can be used to add voice, IM
and Presence functionality to any devices as long as Python/C environment is
supported by such platform.

Additional to the SIP standards implemented by the underlying PJSIP library,
this project implements:

 * XCAP protocol RFC4825
 * MSRP protocol RFC4975
 * MSRP protocol relay extension RFC4976
 * Rich presence data model and format RFC3856, RFC3863 , RFC4479
 * XCAP-diff document modification event draft-ietf-simple-xcap-diff-09
 * Watcher-info RFC3857, RFC3858
 * Conference RFC4575
 * Message summary RFC3842
 * Presence rules RFC5025
 * Resource-lists and RLS-services RFC4826
 * PIDF manipulation RFC4827
 * Bonjour multicast DNS draft-lee-sip-dns-sd-uri-02
 * Locating SIP services RFC3263
 * MSRP ad-hoc multi-party chat sessions draft-ietf-simple-chat-03


Documentation
-------------

For download and installation instructions, API description and other
documentation see the files under docs/ directory.


Support
-------

The project is developed and supported by AG Projects via the wiki
collaboration system available at http://sipsimpleclient.com

To request support you must open a ticket. To open ticket please Register
first. The source browser and ticketing system are available only for
registered users.

If you wish to contribute and become an active developer of this project,
send your request by email to pypjua-devel@ag-projects.com.

