
This document describes the licenses for the SIP SIMPLE client SDK and its
dependencies.


Libxml2 
-------

Libxml2 is the XML C parser and toolkit developed for the Gnome project (but
usable outside of the Gnome platform), it is available under the MIT
License.


Libxslt
-------

Libxslt is a language for transforming XML documents into other XML
documents. It is available under the MIT License.


GnuTLS
------

GnuTLS is a project that aims to develop a library which provides a secure
layer, over a reliable transport layer. Currently the GnuTLS library
implements the proposed standards by the IETF's TLS working group. The
library is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1.


Setuptools
----------

Download, build, install, upgrade, and uninstall Python packages. It is
available under the Python Software Foundation License.


Cython 
------

A language that makes writing C extensions for the Python language as easy
as Python itself. Cython is available under the open source Apache License.


Python-application 
------------------

A collection of modules that are useful when building python applications.
Their purpose is to eliminate the need to divert resources into implementing
the small tasks that every application needs to do in order to run
successfully and focus instead on the application logic itself. Is available
under GNU Library or Lesser General Public License (LGPL).


Dnspython
---------

A DNS toolkit for Python. It supports almost all record types. It can be
used for queries, zone transfers, and dynamic updates. Dnspython originated
at Nominum where it was developed to facilitate the testing of DNS software.
Nominum has generously allowed it to be open sourced under a BSD-style
license.


Lxml
----

Lxml is the most feature-rich and easy-to-use library for working with XML
and HTML in the Python language. A Pythonic binding for the libxml2 and
libxslt libraries. It is unique in that it combines the speed and feature
completeness of these libraries with the simplicity of a native Python API,
mostly compatible but superior to the well-known ElementTree API. The lxml
library is shipped under a BSD license.


Twisted
-------

A networking engine written in Python, supporting numerous protocols. It
contains a web server, numerous chat clients, chat servers, mail servers,
and more. The source code is available under a proprietary license (non GPL).


Pylib
-----

The pylib is a development support library featuring py.test, ad-hoc
distributed execution, micro-threads (greenlets) and uniform local path and
svn abstractions. Is provided under MIT License.


Python-gnutls
-------------

Python wrapper for gnutls available under either GPL or Lesser General
Public License (LGPL).


Eventlet_twisted
----------------

Eventlet makes asynchronous programming look like synchronous, thus
achieving higher signal-to-noise ratio than traditional twisted programs
have. It is available under the MIT License.


Python-xcaplib
--------------

XCAP protocol, defined in RFC 4825, allows a client to read, write, and
modify application configuration data stored in XML format on a server. XCAP
maps XML document sub-trees and element attributes to HTTP URIs, so that
these components can be directly accessed by HTTP. An XCAP server used by
XCAP clients to store data like presence policy in combination with a SIP
Presence server that supports PUBLISH/SUBSCRIBE/NOTIFY SIP methods can
provide a complete SIP SIMPLE solution. The XCAP client example script
provided by this package can be used to manage documents on an XCAP server.
The software is available under either GPL or Lesser General Public License
(LGPL).


Portaudio
---------

PortAudio is a free, cross platform, open-source, audio I/O library. It lets
you write simple audio programs in 'C' that will compile and run on many
platforms including Windows, Macintosh (8,9,X), Unix (OSS), SGI, and BeOS.
PortAudio is intended to promote the exchange of audio synthesis software
between developers on different platforms. The PortAudio licence is a plain
MIT licence.


Pjlib
-----

A small footprint, high performance, ultra portable abstraction library and
framework, used by PJSIP and PJMEDIA. PJLIB is about the only library that
PJLIB-UTIL, PJMEDIA, and PJSIP should depend, as it provides complete
abstraction not only to Operating System dependent features, but it is also
designed to abstract LIBC and provides some useful data structures too. A
cross-platforms portability and framework library. Available under GPL or an
alternative non-GPL license.


Pjlib-util
----------

PJLIB-UTIL is an auxiliary library providing supports for PJMEDIA and PJSIP.
Some of the functions/components in this library: small footprint XML
parsing, STUN client library, asynchronous/caching DNS resolver,
hashing/encryption functions, etc. Available under GPL or an alternative
non-GPL license.


Pjnat
-----

PJNATH is a new library, available in the SVN trunk, for helping the
applications with NAT traversal. It implements the latest specification of
Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN), Obtaining Relay Addresses from
STUN (TURN), and Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE). Available
under GPL or alternative non-GPL license.


Pjmedia	
-------

PJMEDIA is a complementary library for PJSIP to build a complete,
full-featured SIP user agent applications such as softphones/hardphones,
gateways, or B2BUA. Available under GPL or an alternative non-GPL license.


Pjmedia-codec
-------------

A placeholder library to support various multimedia codecs. Available under
GPL or an alternative non-GPL license.


Pjsip
-----

A SIP protocol stack, the main bulding block for this project. Available
under GPL or an alternative non-GPL license. The non-GPL license is
available from its licensor for a one time fee.


Eventlet
--------

Eventlet is a networking library written in Python. It achieves high
scalability by using non-blocking io while at the same time retaining high
programmer usability by using coroutines to make the non-blocking io
operations appear blocking at the source code level. It is available under
MIT license.


Greenlet
--------

Lightweight in-process concurrent programming. The "greenlet" package is a
spin-off of Stackless, a version of CPython that supports micro-threads
called "tasklets". Tasklets run pseudo-concurrently (typically in a single
or a few OS-level threads) and are synchronized with data exchanges on
"channels". It is provided under MIT license.

